# Twitter-US-Airline-Sentiment-Analysis-Project

## Table of contents
- [Project Overview](#project-overview)
- [Executive Summary](#executive-summary)
- [Goal](goal)
- [Data Structure](data-structure)
- [Tools](tools)
- [Data Analysis](#data-analysis)
- [Insights](insights)
- [Recommendations](recommendations)

### Project Overview
- This project focuses on analyzing customer feedback from Twitter to understand sentiment towards major airlines. The dataset provides pre-classified sentiments (positive, neutral, negative) and, for negative feedback, specific reasons for dissatisfaction. This analysis aims to provide actionable insights for airlines to enhance customer service and operational efficiency.

### Executive Summary
**Sales Department:**
This analysis equips the sales team with crucial information on peak sales hours, enabling them to optimize staffing and sales efforts. It also highlights the highest and lowest revenue generated by products across different locations, weeks, months, and seasons, allowing for targeted sales strategies and performance improvements.

**Product Management Department:**
For product management, the analysis offers insights into the average price elasticity of demand for various products, helping them understand how price changes affect sales. It also sheds light on the performance of premium versus budget-friendly products and identifies customer preferences, which can guide product development and portfolio decisions.

**Branch Managers:**
Branch managers can leverage this analysis to understand which products sell most frequently at their specific locations. This information is vital for optimizing inventory management, ensuring popular items are adequately stocked, and potentially identifying local preferences.

**Marketing Team:** 
The marketing team can utilize the findings to strategically plan special promotions based on peak sales periods and customer behavior. It informs decisions on introducing different flavors at various store locations to cater to diverse customer preferences, developing effective combo offers for weekdays or weekends, and tailoring discount strategies to increase customer visits and boost revenue.

### Goal
The objective of this analysis is to:
The primary goal is to leverage tweet data to understand public perception of airlines, identify key drivers of negative sentiment, and help airlines make data-driven decisions to improve customer satisfaction and service quality. This could involve building predictive models for sentiment or root cause analysis.

- Sentiment Prediction
- Negative Feedback Categorization 
- Airline Performance Benchmarking
- Actionable Insights for Operations

### Data structure and initial checks
[Dataset](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1EmudVOp_6vISH8C27vD4agJJEUKdFzSddlHsfkjXDeg/edit?gid=639920194#gid=639920194)

 - The initial checks of your transactions.csv dataset reveal the following:

| Features | Description | Data types |
| -------- | -------- | -------- | 
| tweet_id | A unique numerical identifier for each tweet. | int |

| date | Date when the transaction occurred (MM/DD/YYYY format). | object |
| transaction_time | Time when the transaction was made (HH:MM:SS format).| object |
| transaction_qty  | Number of units purchased in the transaction. | int |
| store_id  | Unique identifier for the store where the purchase was made. | int |       
| store_location |  Name of the store location. | object |
| product_id     |  Unique identifier for each product sold. | int |
| unit_price     |  Price per unit of the product (includes currency symbol).| float |
| product_category | Broad classification of the product. | object |
| product_type     | Subcategory of the product | object |
| product_detail   | Detailed name of the specific product. | object |

### Tools
- Excel : Google Sheets - Check for data types, Table formatting
- SQL : Big QueryStudio - Querying, manipulating, and managing data in relational databases in 
- Python: Google Colab - Data Preparation and pre-processing, Exploratory Data Analysis, Descriptive Statistics, inferential Statistics, Data manipulation and Analysis(Numpy, Pandas),Visualization (Matplotlib, Seaborn), Feature Engineering, Hypothesis Testing
  
### Data Analysis
1). Python

- Importing Libraries
``` python
  import numpy as np
  import pandas as pd
  import matplotlib.pyplot as plt
  import seaborn as sns
  import warnings
  warnings.filterwarnings('ignore')
```
- Loading the dataset
``` python  
df.head()
```
- Dimension and Shape of the dataset
``` python
df.ndim
```

``` python
df.shape
```

- Information of the Dataset
``` python
df.info()
```

- Dropping unwanted columns for analysis
``` python

```
- Checking for Null/Nan values in all the columns and rows
``` python
```
``` python
df.duplicated().sum()
```
## Hypothesis testing:
1). 

2). SQL
A). 
### Insights
- 
### Recommendations
- 
